# Introduction

This project analyzes general public discourse in English about "community" using the computational text analysis method of *word embeddings*.

Community is a concept that social actors invoke in heterogeneous ways to a variety of ends. I find those varied uses interesting, and I suspect there's some systematic structure underlying the variation. When protestors adopt "invest in community" as a core demand of their movement, what they mean is somehow fundamentally different from when a company adopts "give people the power to build community" as its mission The intrinsic flexibility and ambiguity of the word may be part of its power, but what's different, and what's common, is part of the puzzle.

At their core, all text-as-data approaches translate language into numbers. Word embeddings are a dense representation of text in a multidimensional vector space; that's the key difference from the document-term matrices that feed into more familiar approaches like topic modeling. That dense vector representation enables different kinds of analyses -- not necessarily better, just different.

NLP researchers have used embeddings for linguistic tasks like analogy and similarity for several years, and they've begun to develop more complex approaches like contextual and sentence-level embeddings. Meanwhile, social scientists are still sorting out how ordinary word-level embeddings might be useful to us. In sociology, cultural sociologists have led the way. Kozlowski et al (2019) published "The Geometry of Culture" in ASR, analyzing historical change in different dimensions of social class. In a series of methodological papers, Stoltz and Taylor (2019, 2020) have translated and extended an approach for measuring document similarities to measure concept engagement in texts. Arseniev-Koehler and Foster (2020) have developed a theory of bias and cultural learning. At the same time, political scientists (Rheault and Cochrane 2020, Rodriguez and Spirling 2020) have begun to apply embeddings models to legislative proceedings and political speeches. 

These pages are a *prototype* for ongoing work. My intention is to develop this work into the first empirical chapter of my dissertation, and eventually into a publishable paper. My preliminary goal here isn't to answer any particular empirical research question about community; it's to implement and understand methods so I can determine which ones are most relevant for my substantive research interests. To that end, I've read the methods and code for some of the papers I described above, assessed their commonalities and differences, and implemented examples for what I see as common techniques in this new field.
